[docs]: Guide on working with Etsy in Gatsby (#21580)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/sourcing-from-etsy.md

---
title: Sourcing from Etsy
---

[Etsy](https://www.etsy.com/) is an online marketplace for buying and selling handmade, vintage, and custom items. It's long been a home for creative entrepreneurs and can be used as a data source for your Gatsby site.

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes you already have a functioning Gatsby site as well as an open Etsy shop. You can start a new Gatsby site in a few steps with the [Quick Start guide](/docs/quick-start) and then [start selling on Etsy](https://www.etsy.com/your/shop/create)!

## Getting an API key

> You'll need to make sure you have two-factor authentication enabled for your Etsy account. If you don't already, you'll be prompted when you go to [register a new application](https://www.etsy.com/developers/register). Fill in the required information as completely as you can, read Etsy's terms and conditions, and create your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll need to make sure you have two-factor authentication enabled for your Etsy account. If you don't already have it, you'll be prompted when you go to [register a new application](https://www.etsy.com/developers/register). Fill in the required information as completely as you can, read Etsy's terms and conditions, and create your app.
```

```graphql
allFeaturedEtsyListing {
  totalCount
    nodes {
      price
      title
      description
    }
  }
```

Make sure you have _featured_ items! To edit your store, go to the Shop Manager and select your Etsy shop under "Sales Channels". You should see an option to edit or enable featured items.

## Displaying Etsy listings

You can pull your Etsy listing data into a page or component by composing a GraphQL query and specifying the data you would like to display. For example, consider the following query, which gets the title, price, URL, and an image of each featured listing.

```graphql
allFeaturedEtsyListing {
  nodes {
    title
    price
    url
    description
    childEtsyListingImage {
      childFile {
        childImageSharp {
          fixed(width: 400, height: 400) {
            ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Using this query on a page or in a component will allow you to display your listings. The following example loops through the featured items and displays them within a component.

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```jsx
```

{

>   data.allFeaturedEtsyListing.nodes.map(item => (

Reviewer: I believe this will throw a warning in React because there isn't a unique key for each item. We may not care since it's a guide, but perhaps an index as key makes sense to include?

    <>
      <a href={item.url}>
        <h2>{item.title}</h2>
      </a>

>       <Img fixed={item.childEtsyListingImage.childFile.childImageSharp.fixed} />

Reviewer: Is there a way to add variable alt text here?

Reviewer 2: So there's not a _great_ solution for this. Etsy actually doesn't give shop owners a place to add alt text. (Another reason to pull your listings into your own site!) The best I could come up with to do this with the data provided is repeating the title of the item.

I was thinking the alt text was taken from the filename by default but I may have been thinking of MDX... As it is, the alt attribute is still added but it's empty, which means the images should be ignored. Given that the image is sandwiched between the item's name and description, I'm not sure if it makes sense to repeat that information or leave it as is. Tagging @madalynrose!

Reviewer 2: Either way, I think it's worth noting in the text.

Reviewer 3: +1 what Aisha said. if the alt text is going to be repeating information already present, that can get really annoying with a screen reader. keeping the image purely presentational makes sense unless we can communicate extra information about it (e.g. color variation)

Reviewer: Makes sense! Hadn't thought about the images being sandwiched between that info. Thanks for thinking it through so thoroughly :)

      <p>${item.price}</p>
      <p>{item.description}</p>
    </>
  ))
}

> ```

Reviewer: Should we put this example in the context of a component at all?

Reviewer 2: I didn't, similar to the "Sourcing from WooCommerce" one, because it could go wherever. It might make sense in an `index.js`..?

Reviewer: I get the lack of file/component specified, I was thinking more a minimal wrapper ```const SomePage = ({ data }) => {``` kind of thing. But not strictly necessary.

## Gatsby advantages

> If you are familiar with Etsy, you are aware of the restrictions around branding within the platform. Shops have an extremely similar look, which limits the creativity any individual shop owner can display. In addition, you have no control over Etsy's policies. An increase in their listing fees could have a significant impact on your profits. If Etsy went out of business, you would quickly be left without any customers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are familiar with Etsy, you are aware of the restrictions around branding within the platform. Shops have an extremely similar look, which limits the creativity any individual shop owner can display. In addition, you have no control over Etsy's policies.
```
Might remove the last two sentences. I think we can highlight the advantages without detailing future concerns with Etsy.

> So why sell on Etsy at all? The answer is that Etsy shops trade individuality for discoverability. Etsy's advertising budget is enormous compared to what a shop owner, operating alone, could afford. You also benefit from the trust Etsy has built up over the years. Because people are familiar with Etsy, they'll often go straight there to purchase their handmade or vintage items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, there are great benefits to selling on Etsy. What you lose in individuality you gain in discoverability. Etsy's advertising budget is enormous compared to what a shop owner, operating alone, could afford. You benefit from the trust Etsy has built up over the years. Because people are familiar with Etsy, they'll often go straight there to purchase their handmade or vintage items.
```

## Displaying Etsy listings

You can pull your Etsy listing data into a page or component by composing a GraphQL query and specifying the data you would like to display. For example, consider the following query, which gets the title, price, URL, and an image of each featured listing.

```graphql
allFeaturedEtsyListing {
  nodes {
    id
    title
    price
    url
    description
    childEtsyListingImage {
      childFile {
        childImageSharp {
          fixed(width: 400, height: 400) {
            ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Using this query on a page or in a component will allow you to display your listings. The following example loops through the featured items and displays them within a component.

```jsx
{
  data.allFeaturedEtsyListing.nodes.map(item => (
    <section key={item.id}>
      <a href={item.url}>
        <h2>{item.title}</h2>
      </a>
      <Img fixed={item.childEtsyListingImage.childFile.childImageSharp.fixed} />
      <p>${item.price}</p>
      <p>{item.description}</p>
    </section>
  ))
}
```

> Note that, in this example, there is no alt text passed to the `Img` component because this image can be considered presentational. Etsy doesn't provide space for you specify [text alternatives](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/quickref/?versions=2.0#text-alternatives) for your images. Instead, when you list an item on Etsy, alt text is generated for each image you associate with that item from its title. Including the title or description as alt text here would only repeat the exact same information for anyone using a screen reader.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that, in this example, there is no alt text passed to the `Img` component because this image can be considered presentational. All images appear in association with their title and description. Therefore, including the same information as alt text would be repetitive for anyone using a screen reader.
```
I had a slight rewording for this and then I wondered whether it makes more sense to ignore why Etsy doesn't do this and only mention the example above? So that's the recommendation I made, but open to alternatives.
